README.md, before:

# HeatHack 2022: Data Science Collabathon
_-- **Hacking solutions to address the challenge of climate change and urban heat in the Triangle**_

![Title_image](Doc/title.png?raw=true "Title")

In the summer of 2021, Data-Driven Lab collaborated with the North Carolina Museum of Life and Science and the Town of Chapel Hill to pilot an urban heat data collection campaign in Chapel Hill.  We identified neighborhoods that with high potential of heat exposure based on the Town of Chapel Hill's Extreme Heat Resiliency Assessment mapp.Then we equiped the volunteers with handheld Pocketlab sensors that collect individual-scale temperature, humidity, and location measurements. We mapped five of the most vulnerable hotspots in Chapel Hill,  collecting more than 95 thousand data points. Combined with the car-based mobile monitoring conducted in the Raleigh/Durham area, we have high-resolution, spatial datasets of temperature for the entire RTP area. With these data, in addition to other data our lab has access to, we can ask questions such as, “What are the hottest parts of the triangle area, and why? How do green space and tree canopy patterns correspond to urban heat? Can we determine ‘thermal comfort’ zones and potential heat risk areas?”

To answer these questions, provide training, have impact, and provide hands-on fun, we propose a HeatHack 2021 Data Science Collabathon during the 2022 NC Science Festival.  We want to bring coders, programmers, data visualization whizzes, and environmental enthusiasts together to help us distill actionable insights, develop engaging data visuals, and create action plans based on science for the RTP area to address the growing and intensifying challenge of climate change and urban heat.


## Who can participate
This Collabathon is open to all! Whether you are a coder, data geek, or environmental enthusiast, you are welcomed to this event! No coding experience is required (but highly recommended).

**Please note that  participants under age 18 who planned to attend in person need to be accompanied by an adult.**


## Location

UNC campus or Online

## How it works
 This hybrid in-person/remote one-day hackathon will bring together coders, programmers, data visualization whizzes, and environmental enthusiasts to help us discover actionable insights, develop engaging data visuals, and create action plans to address the growing and intensifying challenge of climate change and urban heat in the Triangle.

Data analysis can be completed using any programming languages and tools. There will be data mentors on site and online to support the team during the event. To help participants better prepare for the event, tutorials and resources are also posted on the main event page. Please find them in **Event Resources** section. 

Teams will have the opportunity throughout the day to ask for feedback as they develop their ideas and final products, and at the end, a panel of judges composed of community stakeholders will provide feedback and award prizes for the winning entries. 

Check out the **Judging Criteria and Scoring** to learn how the projects will be evaluated!

## Prize


## Datasets Description
The heat data in HeatHack Datasets was created in collaboration with Data-Driven Lab (Chapel Hill) and the NC Museum of Life and Science(Durham and Raleigh) during HeatWatch campiagns in the summer of 2021. The datasets are also enriched with additonal variables, such as land cover, land surface temperature, etc for the hackers to start with. 

All data can be download from this Github repository or google drive.
Please see the **[Data Description](https://github.com/datadrivenenvirolab/heat-hack-2022/tree/main/Data)** for more details on the dataset. 

## Tackle Challenges
In the Google doc below, we’ve provided some prompts to help you and your team think about ways to use the heat data and other data to develop potential solutions for urban heat and climate change challenges in the Triangle. The first section includes some general questions to help you start thinking about issues related to urban heat. The second section provides a “starter pack” set of prompts that can be investigated using the pre-processed heat data and input variables provided in the “Data” folder above (please see the **[Data Description](https://github.com/datadrivenenvirolab/heat-hack-2022/tree/main/Data)** for more details). The third section includes questions on more advanced topics related to vulnerable populations and policy applications that might require you to find and incorporate other datasets. For both of the advanced sections, we’ve included links to other publicly available datasets that might help answer some of these questions, but feel free to look for and incorporate any other relevant datasets you might find on your own!

HeatHack Prompts: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qb7CPTWlWQKsAlsYCP1QZCCe_tAIUkIk/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101544858877917002306&rtpof=true&sd=true

## Background
Fancy about more studies and event related to Urban Heat Island? 
Please check out here:

 [DDL releases 2021 Chapel Hill #HeatWatch data report](https://datadrivenlab.org/climate/ddl-releases-2021-chapel-hill-heatwatch-data-report/)
 
[Urban Heat Island Temperature Mapping Campaign – Raleigh and Durham 2021](https://climate.ncsu.edu/research/uhi/#:~:text=Raleigh%20and%20Durham%20%E2%80%93%202021&text=In%202021%2C%20Raleigh%20and%20Durham,cities%20of%20Raleigh%20and%20Durham.)

 [Chapel Hill #HeatWatch: How we used citizen science to map urban heat in Chapel Hill](https://datadrivenlab.org/featured/how-we-used-citizen-science-to-map-urban-heat/)

 [The Global Surface UHI Explorer: An Interactive Map of Urban Heat](https://datadrivenlab.users.earthengine.app/view/usuhiapp)

[Disproportionate exposure to urban heat island intensity across major US cities](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-22799-5.epdf?sharing_token=TY2syM94JtMXthapvKVPf9RgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0MkAvRQ0BlAVUfQF_JPxfWYvW8BXdGun-nAXFfrS5PP01PeDHVZznoBN9BCEcGa840ym0uCwiskwYTzutooYT3_H9Au-c1jM7zwmz4cuswCuhq7xuVANgPLYoJUMAjPOOo%3D)


## Acknowledgement
This HeatHack 2022 Data Science Collabathon is a part of the NC Scifest led by Data-Driven Lab and the North CarolinaMuseum of Life and Science. Special thanks to our event partners: Town of Chapel Hill, Morehead Planetarium and Science Center.

Commit message:

add tutorials to the readme

README.md, after:


# HeatHack 2022: Data Science Collabathon
_-- **Hacking solutions to address the challenge of climate change and urban heat in the Triangle**_

![Title_image](Doc/title.png?raw=true "Title")

**[HeatHack Event Main Website](http://datadrivenlab.org/heat-hack-2022/)**

In the summer of 2021, Data-Driven Lab collaborated with the North Carolina Museum of Life and Science and the Town of Chapel Hill to pilot an urban heat data collection campaign in Chapel Hill.  We identified neighborhoods that with high potential of heat exposure based on the Town of Chapel Hill's Extreme Heat Resiliency Assessment mapp.Then we equiped the volunteers with handheld Pocketlab sensors that collect individual-scale temperature, humidity, and location measurements. We mapped five of the most vulnerable hotspots in Chapel Hill,  collecting more than 95 thousand data points. Combined with the car-based mobile monitoring conducted in the Raleigh/Durham area, we have high-resolution, spatial datasets of temperature for the entire RTP area. With these data, in addition to other data our lab has access to, we can ask questions such as, “What are the hottest parts of the triangle area, and why? How do green space and tree canopy patterns correspond to urban heat? Can we determine ‘thermal comfort’ zones and potential heat risk areas?”

To answer these questions, provide training, have impact, and provide hands-on fun, we propose a HeatHack 2021 Data Science Collabathon during the 2022 NC Science Festival.  We want to bring coders, programmers, data visualization whizzes, and environmental enthusiasts together to help us distill actionable insights, develop engaging data visuals, and create action plans based on science for the RTP area to address the growing and intensifying challenge of climate change and urban heat.


## Who can participate
This Collabathon is open to all! Whether you are a coder, data geek, or environmental enthusiast, you are welcomed to this event! No coding experience is required (but highly recommended).

**Please note that  participants under age 18 who planned to attend in person need to be accompanied by an adult.**


## Location

UNC campus or Online

## How it works
 This hybrid in-person/remote one-day hackathon will bring together coders, programmers, data visualization whizzes, and environmental enthusiasts to help us discover actionable insights, develop engaging data visuals, and create action plans to address the growing and intensifying challenge of climate change and urban heat in the Triangle.

Data analysis can be completed using any programming languages and tools. There will be data mentors on site and online to support the team during the event. To help participants better prepare for the event, tutorials and resources are also posted on the main event page. Please find them in **Event Resources** section. 

Teams will have the opportunity throughout the day to ask for feedback as they develop their ideas and final products, and at the end, a panel of judges composed of community stakeholders will provide feedback and award prizes for the winning entries. 

Check out the **Judging Criteria and Scoring** to learn how the projects will be evaluated!

## Prize


## Datasets Description
The heat data in HeatHack Datasets was created in collaboration with Data-Driven Lab (Chapel Hill) and the NC Museum of Life and Science(Durham and Raleigh) during HeatWatch campiagns in the summer of 2021. The datasets are also enriched with additonal variables, such as land cover, land surface temperature, etc for the hackers to start with. 

All data can be download from this Github repository or google drive.
Please see the **[Data Description](https://github.com/datadrivenenvirolab/heat-hack-2022/tree/main/Data)** for more details on the dataset. 

## Tackle Challenges
In the Google doc below, we’ve provided some prompts to help you and your team think about ways to use the heat data and other data to develop potential solutions for urban heat and climate change challenges in the Triangle. The first section includes some general questions to help you start thinking about issues related to urban heat. The second section provides a “starter pack” set of prompts that can be investigated using the pre-processed heat data and input variables provided in the “Data” folder above (please see the **[Data Description](https://github.com/datadrivenenvirolab/heat-hack-2022/tree/main/Data)** for more details). The third section includes questions on more advanced topics related to vulnerable populations and policy applications that might require you to find and incorporate other datasets. For both of the advanced sections, we’ve included links to other publicly available datasets that might help answer some of these questions, but feel free to look for and incorporate any other relevant datasets you might find on your own!

HeatHack Prompts: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qb7CPTWlWQKsAlsYCP1QZCCe_tAIUkIk/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101544858877917002306&rtpof=true&sd=true

## Background
Fancy about more studies and event related to Urban Heat Island? 
Please check out here:

 [DDL releases 2021 Chapel Hill #HeatWatch data report](https://datadrivenlab.org/climate/ddl-releases-2021-chapel-hill-heatwatch-data-report/)
 
[Urban Heat Island Temperature Mapping Campaign – Raleigh and Durham 2021](https://climate.ncsu.edu/research/uhi/#:~:text=Raleigh%20and%20Durham%20%E2%80%93%202021&text=In%202021%2C%20Raleigh%20and%20Durham,cities%20of%20Raleigh%20and%20Durham.)

 [Chapel Hill #HeatWatch: How we used citizen science to map urban heat in Chapel Hill](https://datadrivenlab.org/featured/how-we-used-citizen-science-to-map-urban-heat/)

 [The Global Surface UHI Explorer: An Interactive Map of Urban Heat](https://datadrivenlab.users.earthengine.app/view/usuhiapp)

[Disproportionate exposure to urban heat island intensity across major US cities](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-22799-5.epdf?sharing_token=TY2syM94JtMXthapvKVPf9RgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0MkAvRQ0BlAVUfQF_JPxfWYvW8BXdGun-nAXFfrS5PP01PeDHVZznoBN9BCEcGa840ym0uCwiskwYTzutooYT3_H9Au-c1jM7zwmz4cuswCuhq7xuVANgPLYoJUMAjPOOo%3D)

## Tutorials

**R**

[Intro to R](http://www.r-tutor.com/r-introduction)

[Spatial Data Programming with R](http://132.72.155.230:3838/r/)

[Map Spatial Data in R](https://geocompr.robinlovelace.net/adv-map.html)

**Python**

[Intro to Python – Pandas](https://www.learndatasci.com/tutorials/python-pandas-tutorial-complete-introduction-for-beginners/)

[Intro to Geopandas](https://automating-gis-processes.github.io/CSC18/lessons/L2/geopandas-basics.html)

[Work with Rasters](https://kodu.ut.ee/~kmoch/geopython2020/L5/raster.html)

## Acknowledgement
This HeatHack 2022 Data Science Collabathon is a part of the NC Scifest led by Data-Driven Lab and the North CarolinaMuseum of Life and Science. Special thanks to our event partners: Town of Chapel Hill, Morehead Planetarium and Science Center.
